# About rendering pipline:

    Overview: The main job about the 3D Graphics programming is about transforming "3D" object into the 2D screen, which is managed by the rendering pipline. The pipeline can be devided into 2 parts :

    1. transform 3D coordinates into 2D coordinates

    2. transform 2D coordinates into actual colored pixels

the rendering pipeline in OpenGL is shown as followed

    1. Vertex Data

    2. Vertex Shader

    3. Geometry Shader

    3. Shape Assembly

    4. Rasterization

    5. Fragment Shader

6. Test and Blending

All the step that has contains the name "Shader" is configureable by the programmer.

## Vertex Data

The pipeline start with the Vertex Data as the input, whcich is a collection of data per 3D cooridinate. Theoretically, it would contain any kind of data we would want it to have. But commonly, it would contains the postion and the color value of the verticies

## Vertex Shader

The next stage is Vertex Shader. The main purpose of the Vertex Shader is about transforming the Vertex Data from 3D position into correct 2D position. And the Vertex Shader allow us to do some basic proccessing on Vertex attribute

## Geometry Shader

The Geometry Shader is a optional stage. It takes a collection of verteicies that form a primitive as input and is capable of generating new Vertices from new primitives

## Shap Assembly

The Shape Assembly stage takes the vertices from the Vertex Shader (or Geometry Shader) as input and from a primitive shape

## Rasterization

The Rasterization stage takes the primitives generated by the Shape Assembly stage and map them to the corresponding pixels on the final screen, which generates the fragments for Fragment Shader to use. Before the Fragment Shader stage, the clipping is performed which discrad all the fragment outside of view you specified, increasing performance

## Fragment Shader

The Fragment Shader is used to calculate the final color of a pixel. Usually, it would contain data ablout 3D scene that it can calculate the final pixel color (like the lighting and shadow, etc)

## Test and Blend

The stage of Test and Blending would check the depth and stencil value of the fragment to decided which fragment object would be rendered on the front . It would also check the alpha  values and blends the object accrodingly
